xviii INTROD UCTION.

places the occurrence of the verb substantive after
the partic. passive, and to expunge all repetitions of
words which seemed superfluous to the sense of a
passage, in spite of the concurrent testimony of the
MSS, For instance, in one place (Catil. 51) the word
lex occurs three times in one sentence: Tum, lex
Porcia alaeque Zeyes paratae sunt quibus lembus, etc.
But the fact is, that unless we are to suppose that his
MSSâ€ž many of them very excellent ones, have been
corrupted by officious transcribers beyond all others,
Sallust is in some respects a writer more than usually
redundant. Such in fact is generally the character of
authors who write before the maturity of their lan-
guage: and we may be sure that the affectation of
cutting up sentences by the suppression of words .
which logically belong to them would be the vice of
a later age, and foreign to the spirit of an ancient
writer, especially of one who rather studied to copy a
still remoter antiquity. We may conclude then that
the amputatoe sententie& referred to by Seneca, are
the author's peculiar turns of thought, which are
studiously abrupt and antithetica13 the verba ante
expectatum cadentia are certain harsh and jerking
cadences in the composition, which are evidently pre-
pared with a view to striking effects.

The text of the present edition is formed with due
deference to the authority of the MSS. and of the
citations of ancient writers. Several of the most

disputed passages are quoted by the old Roman gram-

