xii INTROD U ΟΤΙ O N.

Pincian hill, which became eventually the property
of the Enipei-ors, and were a favourite resort of
Augustus, Vespasian‚ Nerva, and other sovereign
rulers. The story that he married Terentia, whom
Cicero had divorced, is devoid of probability. Sallust
lived from heuceforth in luxurious retirement, having
attained wealth and ease, the main objects of his am-
hition. He died B.C. 34, three years before 1110 battle
ofActium.

³Son1e of the worst reflectione upon Sallust’s cha-
racter are derived, as we have seen, from the Decla-
matio in Sallustium, the authenticity of which is at
least doubtful. He had spoken disparagingly of
Pompeius, calling him a man, oris probi, (Some read,
improbi) animo inverecundo, and. Lenaeus, Pompey's
freedman, had attacked him furiously in consequence,
describing him, among other things, as nebulonem vita
scriptisque, monstrosam, with which he coupled a
charge of ignorance, affectation, and plagiarism. He
is said to have been defended by Asconius Pedianus,
who wrote a life of him, 111 the time of Augustus:
but the unfavourable view of his character prevailed.
Porcius Latro, a grammarian of the reign of Claudius,
repeated the charges, against him, and we have seen
that Dion believed and propagated one, at least, of
the gravest of them. Vv⁷e can only say that Dion, as
is well known, generally inclines to the worst view of
every man's character. Impressed with this concur-
rence of authorities, critics have commonly supposed

 

